--------------------------------- ORIGINAL

POLONIUS. Look, where he has not turn’d his colour, and has tears in’s
eyes. Pray you, no more.

HAMLET. ’Tis well. I’ll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.—Good
my lord, will you see the players well bestowed? Do you hear, let them
be well used; for they are the abstracts and brief chronicles of the
time. After your death you were better have a bad epitaph than their
ill report while you live.

POLONIUS. My lord, I will use them according to their desert.

HAMLET. God’s bodikin, man, better. Use every man after his desert, and
who should scape whipping? Use them after your own honour and dignity.
The less they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty. Take them in.

POLONIUS. Come, sirs.

HAMLET. Follow him, friends. We’ll hear a play tomorrow.

 [_Exeunt Polonius with all the Players but the First._]

Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play _The Murder of Gonzago_?

FIRST PLAYER. Ay, my lord.

HAMLET. We’ll ha’t tomorrow night. You could for a need study a speech
of some dozen or sixteen lines, which I would set down and insert in’t,
could you not?

FIRST PLAYER. Ay, my lord.

HAMLET. Very well. Follow that lord, and look you mock him not.

 [_Exit First Player._]

[_To Rosencrantz and Guildenstern_] My good friends, I’ll leave you
till night. You are welcome to Elsinore.

ROSENCRANTZ. Good my lord.

 [_Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern._]
 
--------------------------------- TRAINING EPOCH 1

HAAEEE. I. Ior or  hor oh tore hal tour son tharl bof thers n ron ther fot ther tor te tore rin sot ounr on th tf enthen shas on hir nouthe hof wher the inut his thes and anrle thre ther leley thett son ooe thin no tot yeond in toetin on hit mo mon har inng oin he te peiw tor the in hit mis man thant inl to ton, ben in ton d nore fore and thin  on an in so this tie de an th ther then thin tos ghenn, then thend inr or theuso wot the he no te pin int thers ono

TAMEEN.. CT Se oo ypron to t our in rhnr ent tom io gaco he ne non or the an ther hir sor hore chent oo the yome an thert it thi eemenr hon in mot then to lo toe din doin I tore then io tof sole sothe son nh mast tath so of or ant tor the tho dfrin  oint font hon sod iun hin he thas nu mserasin dert so ther to loe ind bord fhit if ire tous wor as therin no the se here od thenne tor noe ther I this the mad tot mor thaon tor
ine hat tor houd the therl nhis noot e ther sn ere tand the seon tous than th nor the won thns asont wisle taunr ind nortice sound the th to ns yor’s larve sit oo he thes this isit an ton fir ot in too, hin in on tingot on torm the soou thatd in the sens aou san as the there thit hor sorle yor the en nond o ros ithe nove tove in tan hise son tan thinon wos tome eant inne in theics tond the ror inos ron thir fon than thenn the mond in that sone an as the sors the tol lat re no at ne whe ing ment to thit do then bon tor don so the to to an houno the ao sou an the koris the is hom fhernm on ton ther in this ont fin oo in dont soan th is to
o no there ther oo io de an in this of te the the sot thiid thon tor int hor eon thes so hane hor for mine r thin be thire nath
st ho nhe lare lo. To fom nt nor ani din than os dot in thin the the sol the mote toe theme sous fo thert hen thes wou anr her nos ine the the on oh lit than soe or tin there thet mon he th the weis this woor mou tole thr sotr in sert ther thethin wout nlere mon woinis thin the tonmin on bor of that the the lo d whe tot th the s you to be the ty aof on the lo is os ter southere not he the nh the in the te th me no then 

--------------------------------- TRAINING EPOCH 5

HAMLET. I my lord the wert him ho ather’d that his this fathe noul the she bat or uips ond hith of the shere

of our is the lide and wire in the shat ou his sur the tome his of it or with his the mond tha dient and dome he well with or his with the ber ard The the sean on the she gor thit in the bat in shat he ment the be of thou his mather and
thes, and whil the serther the sach and comestart and I pave the master the bate me to the mond the bekin.

HAMLET. The reat it her and my lord whes the his of this store his wher of in the werd sourse but on the the with mise my lodst, And the mast the lith in tho bet or the hive the couke a come fot mast the pand not in the bust to his were hem to the father and thou his lost of the wath the mare this
of and and on the merto of mant and the har for

Hame to the dore the core this with wore our bur the her of the the pance of is and this the mus now to hever and hath the at the her cow that he ses and this dak and the dist the berey and thin the
mert in the pead to my gort of the sell to this has mane his this the forthing, It list his the inger the his and diogh the gort of the his the tha ke spill with the proule and fir the her come of of in with sof tre come to hour the worl the bess thould Hatlering and the mand him we his sour wor the our the sing be it muth and that whe so hit tie to mar to with of muste the fither shat the Hertatis the his mose and not as on the mas on and Hercines and the in with lat his un thin this he the for in of
mrenot the it so core hin thin this of the fort
more mome and with in her and this with the core to hin the merer math not the ingrang the she the shat hor her with but the wish, And to to more the peace so har wee sim; And with a that come for the shing mos sees af thou his seat oo sure the be the her mo hath remis and nour of is cornous, That she coul the mere the but on ofreruot stor of the forching and the more you my lats to has so hor the with of the loud the ase corte and to hat the mather sould herring to buther and of it with the ight with the peach of The hat so arust mat to hin the hand and but mo hor the conl whis me tho her the her of whil the peace and core our his mad’d dome thas mome the cor to sull his the pered.

HORATIO. I she tor my lord
stets and is me the the berte he wis of the coke bo to hat the dinger this the gord this but the sont be and the this cour and the sond wind it pot the masts and the the mour stould of his de her one har hat his marder 

--------------------------------- TRAINING EPOCH 10

POLONIUS. Upon my honour.

HAMLET. They fary the sent of the gord.

HAMLET. I will this siel, to hears and well bore that the mare the peader; and to the word my lord. I hime to heart of the mouth of the hath his not on that so at of and of a aired of core the ither.

HAMLET. O my lord?

HAMLET. I hall they the blood of the blows tree bleane sour of the mone sour of this dound dowe do pronged deat of that my lords, It is the the fith hear here of a that’s mere and but here mure of that she it of the sires to my lite of the hast please The beading to the play that good of our a corling to heaver of your and the well how reawire of all be mode the gried his with your buthand his toure of all the stare but and here of a play to deall of the pare dise himes the pling the play weth his mone they ereto and with lete him we the falles of the his of the bron.

HAMLET. I will be to in a sill a diees, That his spound dale the fature. You well with a ase. The ging ay the farter that the father Have ut a king to my the cune in the have of and that will of that thould to more it mage the callero.

HAMLET. I shath it to to a are that day word us not of anf this seath of that it our a sone of this the the not the gares And well thee ere the hist that the aster it thou stath That of the sake and mather hear and the beade In whou hourder in the rake The rease the frot him. I will the perpion stath here of that come that he heare, That they should but it hear of your and the it a fill to my mast of this betion the his look the seel with and and ferre, I have it hath hime and
of forate, And think his may and siment and him for his more the the ore, The sentles see mo the the to to it my come that hather hather hearth and dead bo the may and were and fore it muther hime the eanine
that the care thou his of the wese here here a diet to me thoure forre this beadees ale and my could a plais
that the warl the King of the poar if the elely and surth and do, a dill of the the
sould of hime of my touter loed the nather of the bete fall this in my rosede. I hove the lowe of comenon and in and my araing of the pore my lord. And we come the rath and mays of this ore that in the sowe a moon will state snours the sell of my are of I
have thould stow for the plood that see it our blode. Here is the beares of the veader.

--------------------------------- TRAINING EPOCH 25

KING. Where is Polonius?

HAMLET. In hears, and there it be showell hang her
hath dees more fimed thou be of a dien.

ROSENCRANTZ. To you to may the forting and think ores doing of his with and for the
mather for a theme trous. That the rastiest the King and
hands do not to hear of her all
with there and groon fither fave steath to some that a ranger state stay, my lord, you dam the clies, the cents to my lord?

HAMLET. goo dound mad sie. A store me or shall you wad mad it.

HAMLET. What I am a see. The geast in the cander of your have with remen, And that is to like the fort, And there owe says of fore wor have then sees. O Hamlet?

KING. That I home the dast to muther sholingill sack the pass to end our fith of that her theme That say of canning to shall thee freen you well we seen that the maders of your a thears, The besping it shelf the mistre of him to
the miness it the rack of him I will of the were of
his preaver shale on in thou mose than our a bents and falled prace of your love in the its of his pare that of your pate, And this pray in my ongs, and the hove his triend Of this part the manners with here desseds to this come of hear of him connited of the manser of him not the senst: And hath you love is the very as the
worch, And with you that hems bean you have not to hear to scake Forten and this piress and ploass of his To the fight in this cones, I like a ploys und all the calse. on you wear dose shall itsoul my thater hear of him not they for a mank of that with his awn the mings.

LAERTES. In make the more have bet the manter of the eastraded of the fation me them his a
fillids or my thate, That the same to stee, That whis abouther have hear
hims surnow te me thin the whation; from the mowner the bing he sead mether sould
to mach it his doing ones with read And he has a
pempetare that the hasth of your haste the man.

--------------------------------- TRAINING EPOCH 55

HAMLET. I have stee, It make you. And the shall nothing for to can pate end. There as a dintion make thy puicting of the all pet ofe frot with mother gode.

LAERTES. Grove is no mothe?

QUEEN. How not they not eper you not ever with her. And hom I shall im not thee, it soul no mother. I sall they dean mertionay. But How they deas is noty.

HAMLET. Why, what in thy never so, and then gentlemen my last, His much and feal spin’d Nay, all be deaded boour’d coursell, fanch, and
paubent spee, At my life sa gind a kendl with strangle In the plickenon deave a fros fills, She live an thing to the cause, The caupent suffer what thou light ne me. I will we hav

Hom As to murt a
mestrans, it is noungly to youn. The senst to the what he dress of the puinss of my tate. To tell it fain to the figer of a sind, And long’s ir for
sidfell.

ROSENCRANTZ. Te she beysald when of you him to may to but my more.

HAMLET. Indey, my lord, hit we made here As his putseratl dome my heads. But
such atay of all thir is they
from he, nob ever it with forchen betreve your his not to cannet to still.

 [_Exit._]

HAMLET. Alak, a may lord.

HAMLET. It is not most if that whall of Don mithers
